# scikit-learn & co bi-weekly meeting

## March 4th, 2024 3pm CET, 9am ET

### Progress reports

- [name=Stefanie]
    - preparing talk for PyLadies meetup: „How to start contributing to open source?“
    - [PR UnsetMetadataPassedError](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/28517)
        - display which method metadata request is not set and from where it was called
        - correct error message for composite methods
        - no default value for parent param (little trick when parent is a function)
    - [PR metadata routing for FeatureUnion](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/28205) continued
        - keep old behaviour: no routing to transform, and some little things
    - [OrthogonalMatchingPursuit](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/28557#issuecomment-1973000754) (DocInspector): documentation and code clarity (discussion with LucyLeeow)

- [name=Olivier]
    - Array API: r2_score [#27904](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/27904):
      upcasts are probably no longer needed:
        - backed by empirical study (linked in the discussion above)
        - backed by the fact that np.sum was made more stable right after the upcasts
          where added to scikit-learn 10 years ago
        - I plan to takeover  to implement this simplication and hopefully unblock:
            - [array-api-strict](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/28555)
            - [train_test_split](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/28407)
            - [RidgeCV](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/27961)
            - and probably more
    - Worked on a motivating example to demonstrate the usefulness of a built-in
      handling of missing values in SplineTransformer:
        - https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/26793
        - first pass of review on [#28043](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/28043)
    - TODO: follow-up on [a study about the causes of miscalibration for logistic
      regression models](https://gist.github.com/ogrisel/8502eb455cd38d41e92fee31863ffea7)
        - next step: open meta issue to discuss the big picture about scores, tuning,
          documentation and small PRs on focused points.
    - TODO: review the callback SLEP, and PRs waiting for reviews and linked here.

- [name=Guillaume]
    - Review and merge the backlogs of PRs related to adding example in docstring of
      public function
        - closing https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/27982
    - A lot of discussion regarding some feature design in `skrub`
    - TODO:
        - `TunedThresholdClassifier`: https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/26120

- [name=Adrin]
    - Triage this week!

- [name=Jérémie]
    - cleaning up `utils.__init__`. Several PRs merged, current PR moving out indexing
      related stuff https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/28546
    - SLEP for the callback API https://github.com/scikit-learn/enhancement_proposals/pull/90.
      Feedback welcome
    - merged last param validation for public function PRs
    - merged array-like / sparse matrix disctinction for param validation

- [name=Loïc]
  + back from one week of holiday, some CI work/clean-ups before
  + meson as main build backend:
    https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/28506. Tested with `cd build`,
    joblib does not seem in the wheel dependency, this may be good to fix it in the same
    PR.

- [name=Arturo]
    - iter on outlier detection
      [#28550](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/28550)
    - some mooc PRs
        - [remove `head`](https://github.com/INRIA/scikit-learn-mooc/pull/766)
        - [nested-cross validation figure](https://github.com/INRIA/scikit-learn-mooc/pull/765)
        - [feedback from Camille](https://github.com/INRIA/scikit-learn-mooc/pull/764)

### Discussions

Add discussion points here, possibly live during the presentation of progress reports:

- [name=Gael] (if we have time): what do people think is the best tool to draft design
  documents and meeting note / priorities (asking for `skrub`, where we need more note
  taking, and community building)?
    - Conclusion: hackmd with a note on top saying that people interested in commenting should ask for permission
- [name=Guillaume] Any thoughts on helping the SLEP on callback to go forward?
    - https://scikit-learn-enhancement-proposals.readthedocs.io/en/latest/slep000/proposal.html
    - Plan the next drafting meeting on callbacks.
- [name=Guillaume] Any thoughts on going forward regarding the user survey (helping
  Francois and Cailean)
    - First round of review in probabl to iron down the details.
    - Once done, check with core team.