# Scikit-learn Monthly Developer meeting
### April 25 2022 @ 14 UTC

When you add an entry, please add you name next to it.

### Topics

- [name=Julien] To be discussed: extend governance to people involved in the project who aren't core-devs.
    - [name=Gael] To quote @melissawm at PydataBerlin "When some people join an open source project, they may be asked to contribute with tasks that will *never* get them on a path to any sort of official input, such as voting rights."
    - [name=Julien] Are they asked to uniquely contribute to tasks which won't get them on a path for decision making? If it's the case, are there examples of such behaviors? Should the CoC be precised?
    - Summary of discussion
        - Limitations with current structure:
            - Incentives (not retaining the right people)
            - Not having decisions driven by people with the right expertise
        - Suggestion:
            - Small modification of governance to give voting power to more people
            - Avoid forcing everybody to feel responsible for everything
            - Create sense of ownership on specific subsquestions
                - Subgroups on specific questions with peoples on them
- [name=Julien] Friendly follow-up: would it make sense to discuss [the notes initiated by Christian and completed by several of us](https://hackmd.io/EnU2zmM-Q0OWDmW4Y9UoXQ)?
  - User survey: ask users about their interests based some statements
  - For reference: [Numpy Community Survey 2020](https://numpy.org/surveys/NumPy_usersurvey_2020_report.pdf)
- [name=Jérémie] Release schedule for 1.1
- [name=Adrin] Mentoring program potentially tight with a small development grant focused on diversity.
    - Guillaume also working with PyLadies Paris for a similar initiative.
    - We could also have a pool of applicants and active developers and a pool of available mentors from different projects.
    - [name=Julien] +1. Do we know how many applicants would be selected?

### Need decision
- [name=Thomas] HDBScan for inclusion? [#22616](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/22616)
    - The answer is yes, but we're not sure if we want to include as is implemented, or to extend OPTICS's implementation to do HDBSCAN.
    - Idea: we merge as is (more or less), but into a branch, and then merge the two models and then merge into `main`.
- [name=Thomas] [SPEC 1](https://scientific-python.org/specs/spec-0001/): lazy loading [#23205](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/23205#issuecomment-1107824218)
    - Try import eagerly first
    - Memory and runtime overhead
    - We're happy to explore the idea. Depending on the consequences we might be okay with it.
- [name=Guillaume] Inclusion & scope of SHAP example? [#18139](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/18139)
    - Toward a post on the scikit-learn blog

### Need attention (reviews)
- [name=Thomas] Nicer error message when experimental flag is not imported: [#23194](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/23194)

### Action items
- Update Roadmap to 2022
- Speak with NumPy and Jupyter about Surveys

### Next meeting date and chair person
- May 30, 2022
