# Scikit-learn Monthly Developer meeting
### May 30 2022 @ TBA

When you add an entry, please add you name next to it.

### Topics
- [name=Thomas] [SLEP018](https://github.com/scikit-learn/enhancement_proposals/pull/68) Pandas output prototype on [Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/thomasjpfan/pandas-prototype-demo/blob/main/index.ipynb) with a [rendered version](https://nbviewer.org/github/thomasjpfan/pandas-prototype-demo/blob/main/index.ipynb).
    - whether or not to handle sparse data in initial SLEP:
        - Adrin: the proposed NamedSparse has trouble when operated on: may or may not retain NamedSparse type.
        - Proposal to cut back to just Pandas output support and remove sparse data support for now.
    - For future: API should allow for scikit-learn specific objects that has mixed data
    - Christian: We need to write down our requirements and identify what we want to achieve in the longer term in terms of allowed input/output types and supported use cases.
    - Some discussion of possibly supporting mixed-type (dense and sparse) data containers while supporting richer input/output types. In principle, adding feature names is independent of a discussion of mixed-type data containers.
- [name=Olivier] EuroScipy 2022 (Aug. 29 - Sept. 02, Basel), [CFP](https://www.euroscipy.org/2022/program.html) deadline: 6th of June
    - [name=Olivier]  I am thinking of submitting a tutorial on time-series forecasting with quantile HGBT and lagged/windowed features
    - [name=Adrin] May also propose separate contribution to EuroScipy, ideally relating to "sample props"
    - [name=Guillaume] May propose a talk regarding imbalanced classification and evaluation

### Need decision

- [name=Adrin] isort in pre-commit: https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/23362
    - proposed solution forward is to have ideally a GH action/bot leaving a comment telling user how to fix the linting issues, how to install the tools and what to install.
    - to keep the PR small, we shall first improve the CI, and then add the `isort` step.
    - we can have IDE specific recommendations like [`pytorch`](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/master/.vscode/settings_recommended.json).
    - `pytorch` also has a bot that leads a comment with [CI failures](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/pull/78080#issuecomment-1134689770) and updates the comment

### Need attention (reviews)
- [name=cmarmo] First time contributor PR waiting for review: https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/19751
- [name=Gaurav Chawla] Requesting your opinion on Group Time Series Split : https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/16236 and https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/19072
    - Contiguous group structure is required for now: no opposition but needs to be well documented
    - For now the concensus is to keep it as a new class and maybe later we could add a `groups` optional argument to `TimeSeriesSplit`, `KFold`, `ShuffleSplit` in order to deprecate redundant `Group*` splitter classes
- [name=Julien] IMO, some valuable PR from external contributors waiting for reviewers:
    - ENH Hellinger distance split criterion for classification trees: https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/16478
    - ENH Monotonic Contraints for Tree-based models: https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/13649 (Windows machine needed)
        - Probably can be debug via git bash using gdb?
- [name=Julien] Christian proposed to pursue discussions on SLEP 8: Propagating feature names https://github.com/scikit-learn/enhancement_proposals/pull/18#issuecomment-1120394715
- [name=Meekail] HDBSCAN library inclusion as sub-module: https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/22616
    - I think that we discussed some meetings ago -> https://github.com/scikit-learn/administrative/blob/master/meeting_notes/2022-04-25.md#need-decision
    - Investigate using HDBSCAN backend for OPTICS
- [name=Adrin] This [SLEP006 PR](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/22986) needs attention, which is a requirement for us to continue working on other meta-estimators.

### Action items

### Next meeting date and chair person
- June 27 Same time
