# Scikit-learn Monthly Developer meeting
### November 28 @ 15:00 UTC

When you add an entry, please add you name next to it.

### Topics

- [name=Chiara] Wiki access: edit rights are restricted to colaborators (push rights). There are no other available settings. Two possible actions:

  - Ask github for new features and wait... eg https://github.com/orgs/community/discussions/21088.
  - open to everybody and blocking specific users https://github.com/orgs/community/discussions/27733 (easy as authors are tracked, but possible only after the damage is done)
  - comments from the meeting:
      - there has been abuse before which lead to the restriction
      - the wiki is not used a lot
      - is it possible to move the content that is actively used to somewhere else with better permissions?
      - clarify: what other use cases for the wiki could there be?
      - Action: move the C integer type page to the documentation
      - Idea: move useful info, then close the wiki

- [name=Loïc] stop using gitter in favour of Discord ? Too many places where to track the information, removing one may be useful although not a silver bullet ...
    - [name=Julien] +1. The multiplication of platforms to communicate is a problem.
    - [name=Meekail] +1, I personally prefer discord and they are redundant in purpose.
    - [name=Andreas] agree on the problem, not the solution. gitter is a standard place cross-project and it's much easier to interact with projects that way.
    - comments from the meeting:
        - some support for reducing the number of channels, but no clear preference
        - audio/video rooms in discord are a useful feature compared to making lots of "Google meet" rooms
        - not much use of the "archive" of chat messages (maybe because its hard to do so in gitter)
        - Proposal: centralise the discussions of maintainers to one medium
        - question: is it possible to have discord/gitter configured to intentionally forget messages after a certain amount of time?
        - proposal: have text channels for specific topics (development, help, admin, etc) and some "unsorted" voice channels for ondemand use
        - action: open an issue to make a decision on gitter vs discord (with revamped channels)
- [name=Loïc] Enable [auto-merge](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/configuring-branches-and-merges-in-your-repository/configuring-pull-request-merges/managing-auto-merge-for-pull-requests-in-your-repository) on the repo. In principle this would allow to say this particular PR can be merged when CI is green instead of remembering to come back and merge it. If a new commit is pushed you can configure it to cancel the auto-merge. We would need to set-up branch [protection rules](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/configuring-branches-and-merges-in-your-repository/defining-the-mergeability-of-pull-requests/managing-a-branch-protection-rule). Branch protection rules may prevent to merge a PR when CI is red, which in rare cases is useful (I know for a fact that this CI failure is unrelated let's merge this PR)
    - [name=Julien] +1 for auto-merge if it is possible to require more than 2 approvals for some on PR-basis.
    - [name=Julien] +1 for branch protection.
    - [name=olivier] +1
    - [name=Tim] is the "merge when CI is green" functionality of "[Refined GitHub](https://github.com/refined-github/refined-github)" a solution?
        - Need to keep the tab open, sometimes works, sometimes doesn't work, which is annoying
    - clarify: does a human have to click "auto merge" on a PR for it to happen, or does it automatically happen for all PRs that match the approval requirements?
        - [name=Loïc] I think this is a human action but I need to reread the doc. I'll put this in the issue
- [name=Julien] [SLEP019 Follow-up by Chiara](https://github.com/scikit-learn/enhancement_proposals/pull/81):
    - This PR boils the proposed changes to the minimal required ones.
    - Extra change: one-year transition period from Technical Committee to Steeting Committee
    - We are waiting for people's opinion.
- [name=Tim] "Hanging" PRs/issues - what to do? There are a lot of PRs/issues that "hang" in the sense that it isn't clear what needs to happen next. Leads to lots of work in progress, which increases the number of hung PRs/issues. Overall this makes it hard to complete things.
    - If the PR author leaves there is a good mechanism for continuing the PR (ask and then make a new PR a few days later). What about reviewers that go missing/busy/holiday?
        - [name=Julien] We could setup a bot following-up with either the author or the reviewers not to have PR be forgotten and stale.
    - Ways to avoid becoming the blocker? For example, when people participate in a PR but then stop, should we wait for their opinion? Just go ahead? What about the "last minute comments" triggered by "we will merge this tomorrow"?
        - [name=Julien] IMO, we should have only a few people (2 up to 4 max for hard/important/controversial PR) who take ownership of getting PR approved and merge or closed. People who start participating in a PR should continue participating or must not be waited for because it's blocking people and delaying decisions.
    - Leave a note stating your intentions? "Left comments, but please don't wait for me", "Exploring south america for two months. see you then.", "Working on this during the next days", "I have more comments but no time, can you do me a favour and wait with merging?", "I have more comments but no time, please don't wait for me", etc, etc
        - [name=Julien] +1. We need to make reviews' availabilites clear. I share [Mathew Rocklin's views on the role of a maintainer](https://matthewrocklin.com/blog/2019/05/18/maintainer).
    - the default is "I am involved" once you start participating and "I've run out of time/become busy" requires action. Is there a way to reverse this (busy people don't have time to indicate they are busy)?
    - comments from the meeting:
        - try and state if "don't wait for me" applies to your comments
        - action: use public discord/a chat channel for advertising your short term intentions/prios to help get things moving
- [name=François] Funding
    - We sent a complete proposal to the French government for state funding and are expecting a reply by the beginning of January 2023.
    - We initiated some discussions with European instances.
    - What is the status of AWS funding through NumFocus?
    - [name=Julien] Have someone applied for the [DOE/ASCR Funding](https://science.osti.gov/-/media/grants/pdf/foas/2023/SC_FOA_0002844.pdf)? See mail from Adrin on November 2.

- [name=Jérémie] Release 1.2
    - All items from the milestone have been merge or moved to 1.3 (~10).
    - First RC sheduled today https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/25045
    - Finale schedule 1 week (or 2 weeks ?) after that if only one RC.
    - comment from the meeting:
        - whoop whoop 🥳
        - release the RC as soon as possible, no need to wait
        - maybe manually test the biggest scikit-learn users with the RC
            - or encourage them to do it themselves [name=Loïc] +1
            - [GitHub identifies repositories that depend on scikit-learn](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/network/dependents)
            - Thomas has https://github.com/thomasjpfan/scikit-learn-integration-testing

- [name=Loïc] sklearn PyPI package brownout starts December 1st (in three days), redirect people to https://github.com/scikit-learn/sklearn-pypi-package if unexpected issues or complaints? All the info, including brownout schedule: https://github.com/scikit-learn/sklearn-pypi-package

### Need decision

- [name=Guillaume] Simplify PartialDependenceDisplay API ?
  Current API allows to make several plots with a single call. => API different than the function partial_dependence, and duplicated / complex / hard to maintain code.
  - [name=olivier] I also feel that the code is too complex to maintain but I am not sure how to make it easy to ensure that the ylim for different features
      - you can pass `[2.123, None]` to ylim to keep the upper limit "as determined by matplotlib". Is this what you were looking for?
          - no, we want the same y axis on both plots, so we need to work out the "max of the max" and the "min and min" from the two plots.
  - action: open an issue on github
### Need attention (reviews)

### Action items

### Next meeting date and chair person
- Jan 9th, time TBA
