# Scikit-learn Monthly Developer meeting

### July 31 2023

### Topics

- [name=Julien Jerphanion] Comply with SPEC 0
    - Current minimum version:
        - Python (>= 3.8)
        - NumPy (>= 1.17.3)
        - SciPy (>= 1.5.0)
    - Reasons to comply (see also [the motivation for SPEC 0](https://scientific-python.org/specs/spec-0000/#motivation)):
        - use SciPy's and NumPy's latest changes, removing branching based on their versions at runtime (remove maintainance cost)
        - provide public release schedule, helping downstream libraries
        - a prelimary to get ride of SciPy sparse matrices
        - encourage users to update their environment, benefiting their work
    - Reasons not to comply:
        - allow scikit-learn to be used in more environment
        - less flexibility if scikit-learn has to follow a release schedule
    - Decision: should we do a vote on the mailing list?
    - [name=Adrin, Thomas] We have been a bit more conservative, it seems a good idea to follow something other than what we have now, which is no policy. So writing down something is good, but probably something older than what SPEC0 suggests.
    - [name=Meekail] Does SPEC 0 compliance necessitate dropping, or does it only necessitate support for <=2 y.o. packages?

### Updates

- [name=Adrin] In person PyLadies sprint with Guillaume, Maren, and Adrin tomorrow Tuesday 1st August.
- [name=Meekail/Julien] Results from internal survey
    - [Ranked choice vote](https://strawpoll.com/NMnQ5G4xAn6/results)
        - Emphasis on ecosystem tooling
            - DataFrame interoperability
            - Array API
            - Pyodide
        - Emphasis on user/developer experience
            - Documentation
            - Metadata routing
            - Developer UX/API
            - Usability
        - [name=Adrin] How do we translate these priorities into actionable tasks? Some already are (e.g. Array API, Metadata Routing, etc.)
        - [name=Meekail] We could open roadmap issues for these projects (or the top-k) which we keep open and updated
            - [name=Thomas] This requires a "lead" for each issue who maintains the issue
    - [Long-answer survey](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1HsucfFcja1eA4GXerIS3-FaeQq349tF13ij3JPkwaJ4/edit?usp=sharing)
        - Emphasis on internal organization of effort
            - Several comments regarding de-prioritizing certain features/work as a project.
            - Being able to say "no" and close issues, as opposed to leaving the option open (potentially indefinitely) for some future contributor to *maybe* complete.
        - Concerns included:
            - Sustainability (will always be somewhat of a concern, but important to keep in mind)
            - Keeping governance updated
- [name=Meekail] CoC enforcement (*from drafting meeting*)
    - Case study: building [docs without install](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/25766)
    - [Current response referring to CoC](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/25766#issuecomment-1497420595)
    - [Discord message/discussion](https://discord.com/channels/731163543038197871/1128668710366883871/1133045158980628561)
    - Do we want to create a generic response template for CoC violations?
    - Do we want to begin a policy of enforcing CoC violations via closing issues/PRs?
        - If so, do we have a cooldown period after which the author(s) may attempt again?
        - Does it apply to only a single author, barring them from continuing discussion?
        - Does this *improve* the issue? Either by discouraging CoC violations (real consequences) or by sparing maintainers the burden of "courteously" responding?
        - We could increase enforcement on an individual maintainer level.
        - **[name=Meekail] Action**: Draft a CoC page which dictates, not just the CoC itself, but individual enforcement without being driven by a CoC committee.
            - [Example](https://berlincodeofconduct.org/)
            - Discuss **process** and discuss **scope** (*potential* consequences)
        - **[name=Adrin] Action** Make a private channel to discuss CoC violations.
    - We do not have a CoC committee. Once, we were close to using PSF's CoC committee, however they backed out and we no longer have a CoC committee.
        - There is a bit of a push for NUMFOCUS to provide CoC committees for all sponsored projects (e.g. via third-party CoC)
        - Shall we form our on CoC committee? Very few people *want* to be in a CoC committee (especially unpaid).
    - [name=Adrin] Templates do not tend to help with these problems -- each case is too unique

### Need decision

### Need attention (reviews)

### Action items

### Next meeting date and chair person
