# Scikit-learn Monthly Developer meeting
### February 27 @ 15:00 UTC

### Topics

- [name=Thomas] High level repeated topics from [Group Vision hackmd](https://hackmd.io/EnU2zmM-Q0OWDmW4Y9UoXQ):
    - Linear Models as first class citizens (Faster & better)
    - Improve UX when working with categorical variables
    - Optimize Pipeline's + `warm_start`
    - Improve tools for metrics & scoring with different workflows
    - Improve tools for Calibration
    - Overall performance
    - [name=Thomas] Update roadmap for 2023

- [name=Olivier] For information: ongoing work in loky/joblib
    - `return_generator=True` https://github.com/joblib/joblib/pull/1393
    - `joblib.parallel_config` https://github.com/joblib/joblib/pull/1392
    - various stability bugs (crashes) under investigation in loky:
        - See ongoing activity on those issues / prs for details https://github.com/joblib/loky/issues?q=sort%3Aupdated-desc
        - This is a prerequisite to be able to release a new version of joblib.

- [name=Olivier] calendar/objectives for next minor (and major releases)?
    - Only one issue open left for 1.2.2 + many merged PRs https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues?q=milestone%3A1.2.2+
      [name=Jérémie] but a few open PRs left :)
      [name=Jérémie] I was planning to do it next week (same duration as between 1.2 and 1.2.1)
    - scikit-learn 1.3 should be targeted for May/June if we want to follow our optimistic target of one major release every 6 months. Maybe it's a bit early to discuss 1.3.

- [name=Olivier] Shall we convert/split SLEP 019 into a PR to the governance doc to ease the discussion/review?
    - https://github.com/scikit-learn/enhancement_proposals/pull/81
    - [SLEP 020](https://scikit-learn-enhancement-proposals.readthedocs.io/en/latest/slep020/proposal.html) was voted and documentation updated accordingly:
        - https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/25663
    - New governance proposal: https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/25670/
    - Three discussions can be split into two independent PRs:
        - contributor groups
            - current language of SLEP019 was less dry than the new proposal
            - permissions on the main scikit-learn/scikit-learn repo based on group needs
            - permissions on other repos (e.g. blog) also depends on teams
                - Lauren: Communication team is consulted and have permissions over the blog and communication repos, and ability to update relevant documentation.
        - how to acknowledge the work of recurring contributors independently of group membership (more lightweight process, no permissions / votes)
        - steering committee
            - needed for contracts such as NumFOCUS and maybe other future grants
            - goal would be to improve the transparency of what is currently implicitly done, such has hirings, and be clear about entities involved in these decisions.
            - This team (steering committee) doesn't have any other powers as far as it comes to project related things as long as the core contributor team has consensus.
    - Keep SLEP 019 updated to document the changes in the governance for long term visibility.
- [name=Lauren] Comms: Team member feature in process to introduce the core contributors, Inria team members, and other contributors to the community. *Please look out for a short survey.*

### Need decision

### Need attention (reviews)

- [name=Thomas] Target Encoder! [#25334](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/25334)
- [name=Julien] [GOV Propose 3 Basic Roles](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/25670/) from Christian

### Action items

### Next meeting date and chair person
- March 27
