#### Andreas
n_features_out_: waiting for reviews
Plotting api #14357
plot_tree needs visualizer?, plot_partial_dependence needs 
Needs reviews on adrin’s pr for CT

#### Thomas Fan
https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/thomasjpfan/sklearn_viz_html/blob/master/display_estimator_workflow.ipynb  #14180
( joel +1 for default for meta-estimators in jupyter)
Pop up over name of estimator

#### Nicolas
Private Gridsearch API extended
Long term goal as part of CZI proposal: faster pipeline search without redundant computations

#### Hanmin Qin
CategoricalNB - categories  - accept integers
In the future, consider pandas categoricals
UnaryEncoder - useful? 
Health domain - blood pressure over threshold with linear model
Discretizing a continuous variable for interpretability
Use as a discretizer instead of as a transformer?

#### Guillaume
Types of index should be supported in safe_indexing #14475
Should safe_indexing work with boolean mask on rows (can change API of what’s allowed to be returned by cv splitter)?

#### Joel
Sample props! SLEP006 (New proposal on Aug 5)

#### Adrin
NamedArray #14315
Ping him please

#### Jeremie
Control of OpenMP parallelism, how to expose API to users

#### Roman
GLM waiting for reviews #14300

#### Gael
More losses for models
Quantile Regression - solver is ugly
Chiara Marmo - Help with scaling up operations
Training in France - Open source materials for training - for profit
GLM #14300 !

##### How to set up meeting?
Everyone quickly states their topics - SCRUM
To inform ourselves about what is going on.
Short summary of topics

##### Question:
Can we manage the issue tracker better?
Are there SLEPs / PRs / Issues we want to prioritize?
