#### Adrin:
- Warning and log is important. Not warning users on things that are important because there are too many warnings.
  - Move things to logger, and prioritize our warnings

#### Joel:
- Discussing feature freeze. Maybe focus on things that have been hanging around for a while, and then focus on release

#### Olivier:
- Maybe avoid merging big features before release, and start thinking in release mode
- Loky / joblib
  - Working a lot on loky to deal with oversubscription: set the max_num_thread in child process
  - New release of loky required for Python 3.8
- PR on successive halving (#13900) and poisson regression (#14300), but if we feel that the review is taking a lot of time: let’s not delay

#### Thomas:
- SLEP on kw only whitelist: focus on what to whitelist; it is in the discussion of the PR
  - This seems to distinguish between positional and kw in usage stats: https://github.com/Quansight-Labs/python-api-inspect/blob/master/data/csv/scikit-learn-summary-without-tests.csv
  - Are statistics on usage useful to decide the whitelist

#### Guillaume
- Support of dataframe in the PDP
- Resampler SLEP: move ahead to a vote (feeling is to go toward a specific metaestimator)

#### Andy:
- BinnedStratifiedKFold to review (but 2 reviewers are on it)
- Meta-estimator checks (needs review)

#### Nicolas:
- Deprecation frenzy. But lots of file rename: file.py => _file.py… lot’s of difficult conflicts to solve on existing PRs
  - We are losing blame
- N_features_in PR: replaces call to check_array or check_XY to calls to a method
  - Problem: changes our definition of check_estimator
  - As we are changing our definition of an estimator => SLEP for documentation?
  - Putting a burden on people implementing estimators outside of scikit-learn => discuss in SLEP

#### Jéremie:
- OpenMP and threadpoolctl. It would be nice to get a conclusion on this discussion
  - It would be nice not to expose the details of which backend is used
  - When the type of parallelism is changed (eg moving from multiprocessing to threading): do we go through a deprecation warning?
  - Proposal: not expose the details in general and tackle specific cases on some estimators
  - On some estimators, the scalability beyond many threads is bad: should we by default set max_num_threads=10
- Improving installation instructions

#### Roman:
- Review GLM
- Need decision on quantile regression



If anyone is looking for a PR to review, consider the list at: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1hPjoJsI-dyBb_dFlZW798TvrgNsABQLD

**Note**: release close to next meeting
**Next meeting**: 2019-10-28T12:00Z
