# April 27 2020 -- Scikit-learn dev meeting

## 0.23 Release
- Release issue: [17010](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/17010)
- Who's the release manager? Adrin is. But the goal of the release issue is to  distribute release tasks across the team.
- Adrin would like to create the 0.23 tag by tomorrow or wednsday.
- Need to be in before:
    -  kwonly deprecations PRs [#15005](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/15005).
        -  Only 2 remaining: [17046](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/17046) and [16719](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/16719) 
        -   TODO: **heavily advertise the RC** to make sure people discover potential issues and voice their concerns before the final release 
    -  ...
- Would be nice but not crucial, priorities after the meeting:
    - Support for `pd.Na` as a missing value in imputers [#16508](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/16508) : the PR is clean and widely commented.
    - Remove support for classes in `check_estimator` PR at [17032](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/17032) : Nicolas will address roman's comments and ping asap.
    - Reorder gallery to put highlights at the top of examples [#16952](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/16952)
    - HTML Viz: Need decision on whether this is default repr in Notebooks [#14180](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/14180) : to be merged for 0.23, with conservative configuration (ie preserving current behavior) in order not to break dependencies.
- Would be nice but not crucial
    - make `xfail_checks` tag work with `check_estimator` [#16963](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/16963)
    - Support unicode strings in encoders [#15763](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/15763)
    - Improve navigation of user guide [#16964](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/16964)
    - Use BLAS for dot product in libsvm (e.g. SVC) [#16530](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/16530)
    - Remove logging initialisation? [#15122](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/15122)
    - Option for classical TF-IDF weighting  [#14748](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/14748)
    - Column vector input to vectorizers for easier ColumnTransformer integration [#16994](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/16994)
- Feature highlights [#17014](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/17014): previously discussed in [#15814](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/15814). The foundation post is just a short description not engaging scikit-learn itself. A lot of people do their own release description. Olivier: those are two different communication channels, different tones, different audience. Nicolas: this duplicate the work and confuse users. Anyway the release highlights on the website need to have more visibility: they are linked into the ChangeLog already, it could be useful to link them into the homepage too.
- Build sdist in macpython wheels to be uploaded to anaconda so we do not make sdist mistakes [#53](https://github.com/MacPython/scikit-learn-wheels/pull/53) Nice to have for automation but let the release managers decide if they want to do it manually.

## Misc

- Chiara now in charge of the minutes + sending calendar invites and email reminders
    - Meeting notes should now be initiated with a text explaining the process:
        - The meeting notes are build by curating a list of issues
        - The bullet points should have the name of the person who proposes the issue
        - People should be logged in when editing
        - The curated list should then propose an order by priority and not by  name of submitter
- Tidelift: funding of $1500/month (right now) to go via numfocus [amueller]
- NumFocus sponsorship [amueller]
- Discussion with NumFocus European Chapter: they ask for details about how decisions are taken in scikit-learn on how to use the money.
- Adrin to TC [amueller]
- When reviewing, let's remember to add `versionadded` or `versionchanged` directives where relevant
- Stop generating pdf docs and provide zip of html docs instead? [17051](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/17051): approved. Gael propose e-pub for the future.
- Started work on strict mode for `check_estimator`: prototypes at [16882](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/16882) and [16890](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/16890)
- Should we set `print_changed_only` as the default now? Might be better for the html viz. Nicolas will open a PR.

- Olivier mentioned that Pierre and himself are making progress on joblib (errors on windows with temporary memmap files and next dask backend bugfixes) and cloudpickle issues (type annotations).

Next meeting May 25th 


## Issues and comments from contributors
