# *November 29th 2021*

When you add an entry, please add you  name next to it.


### Fun topics

### Need decision

- Organisation around meetings.
    - [name=Julien] : For some context see discussions on [#21287](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/21287).
    - [name=Thomas] : Triage focused meeting
        - Every two weeks
        - Open to everyone and only a subset of the maintainers needs to attend
        - Can help work out technical issues to present during the monthly meeting
- Integrating Juan MartÃ­n Loyola in the Triage Team
    - We still need to wait for the month period to finish voting
- [name=Adrin] Check if core devs still want to be considered active or emeritus: let's see after the currently ongoing vote
- [name=Guillaume] Release scedule for 1.0.2 -> proposal for December 15, 2021
- [name=Guillaume] [SLEP000](https://github.com/scikit-learn/enhancement_proposals/pull/30): calling a vote for it?
- [name=Guillaume] Way forward regarding the shape of `.predict(X)` for single target regression [#20603](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/20603)
    - Awaiting for input in the PR such that we can get to a consensus to unlock some PRs

#### Preventing the CI from breaking (Julien)

Recently the CI caused a lot of frictions (see recent FIX and MAINT PRs).

IMO, this impacts:
 - (core) developers ability to work efficiently on scikit-learn (context switches to find a hotfix)
 - contributors from helping with the project (as they get improper "red" feedback via the CI eventhough their contributions are fine)
     - [name=Guillaume] regarding the UX there, I would like:
         - having fewer visible checks (e.g. merge all azure ci)
         - direct link to the logs
     - [name=Guillaume] missing changelogs and linter/black is certainly a blocker

Identified problems are:
   - 1. newer versions of library for `pylatest` making the CI breaks with no code change
   - 2. timeout due to too long tests (> 1h of running tests).
       - [name=Thomas]: I think this is only for the OSX without openmp  build. Opened [#21772](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/21772) to help with OSX builds.
   - 3. timeout due to Azure CI services
   - 4. random drops of connection (e.g when downloading datasets)

Proposed solutions:
   - 1. pinning maximum versions for pylatest and have someone or something to update them
       - [name=Thomas]: We can have CI update the pin every few months or when the dependency updates.
           - [name=Gael] +1
       - [name=Julien]: I agree. @ogrisel also proposed it. Would it make sense to use something similar to [dependabot](https://github.com/dependabot) (a bot which create PRs updating requirements to prevent CVE exploits)?
   - 2. increasing the possible runtime for the CI
       - [name=Guillaume]: I think that we should instead reduce our runtime
   - 3. changing to another CI service (with potential non-free subscription?)
   - 4. Apart from leaving Azure CI, can we control other problems?
       - [name=Adrin]: I remember Andy saying he could potentially get us what we need from Microsoft :D
       - [name=Thomas]: Azure has been solid for the last 2 years. I think the caching issue is a one-of. Without pinning `pylatest`, we will run into the same issue with other CIs.
       - [name=Julien]: To me, apart from UI/UX and rare timeouts, Azure is a good solution for our needs. I think moving to another CI solution might be costly time-wise. In Azure, problems can be alleviated similarly to what @thomasjpfan did in [#21715](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/21715) which is a nice plus.

 - [name=Julien]: What do you think of this? Are there any other ways we can prevent those types of problems from happening?
   - [name=Adrin]: CI is a lot of maintanance work, and I think we can work on ours quite a bit. It's already gotten a lot better than before thanks to a lot of work that people like Thomas have put there.
   - [name=Julien]: Yes, definitely. Another option is try our best at being reactive and not introducing more tools in the setup.

**Decision:**
 - [name=Julien] implement @ogrisel's proposal, i.e. dev of a bot to update dependencies automatically
     - we might need to implement one from scratch
     - others failures (timeout, etc.) are manageable and can be solved on the spot
 - [name=Thomas] [numpy recently removed dependabot](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/issues/18977) because it was opening PRs on forks which was annoying

### Need attention (reviews)
- [name=Christian]: Follow-up PRs of [#20567](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/20567):
    - [#21814](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/21814) Small (code-wise) but significant improvement for binomial loss (aka logloss, binary cross-entropy)
    - [#20811](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/20811) Replace loss module HGBT
    - [#21800](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/21800) quantile regression for HGBT
    - more to come
- [name=Christian]: [#21020](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/21020) HGBT interaction constraints

### General topics
- [name=Adrin]: we have people who donate to sklearn as a private individual, we could recognize them, in some way. (also related to what the comms team could do?)
    - [name=Julien]: +1. We need to make sure they want to have recognition as some don't
    - Need to adapt the donation form to ask the donors
    - Potentially setup a page with the list of donors
    - Tweet to thank them when releasing or from time to time and link to that page
- [name=Adrin]: NumFOCUS [workshop](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/a-scikit-learn-workshop-on-intermediate-and-advanced-features-tickets-216346396897)
- [name=Adrin]: Tidelift is in progress (them checking the application)
    - check if we can credit the donors who donate through Tidelift
- [name=Joel]: storing parameter spaces per [#21784](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/21784)... On each estimator? or in a factory?
    - Decision: write a SLEP
- [name=Joel]: `clone` impedes extensions. My belief: `clone` should have always been a method available for polymorphism ([#5080](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/5080), since an object should know how to clone itself. (This would make it easy to build a `FrozenEstimator` wrapper for instance, even though we once [resolved not to do it this way](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/8370#issuecomment-467509431), to extend for other new features like storing sample prop requests and hyperparameter spaces.) Changes to `BaseEstimator.clone` would still require SLEP.
    - [name=Guillaume]: Another blocker for `clone` is about the identity sanity check of parameters (xref: [recent example](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/discussions/21821)) + Cython estimator class like in PyTorch
    - [name=Thomas]: We can define a `__sk_clone__` method defined by an estimator that `clone` calls (if it exist) that allows the estimator to define how it clones. I'm not sure it needs dunders, but maybe.
- [name=Guillaume]: [#21718](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/21718) regarding inclusions, discoverability, and documentation of metrics is extremely important. It would be nice to get feedbacks and have a way forward.
    - [name=Thomas]: Do we have an inclusion criterion for metrics?
- [name=Guillaume]: Gael mentioned a survey among core devs about long terms `scikit-learn` goals and focus sometimes ago. Shall make it a focus for the next meeting (at least collect info)?
    - [name=Gael]: Yes please, and to be reasonnable, I think that we need to ask someone to take that over from me. I'm simply not finding the time
    - [name=Guillaume]: I am going to send an email internally regarding this topic.

### Communications
- Issue [#21236](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/21236) to add social media links
- Buffer
- YouTube [Playlists](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCJosFjYm0ZYVUARxuOZqnnw/playlists)
    - Scipy Tutorial 2017: [Part #1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2kT6QOVSgSg&t=123s&ab_channel=Enthought) [Part #2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WLYzSas511I&ab_channel=Enthought)
    - Scipy Tutorial 2018: [Part #1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4PXAztQtoTg&t=1s&ab_channel=Enthought) [Part #2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gK43gtGh49o&ab_channel=Enthought)

### Next meeting date and chair person
- Dec 20, ~~Dec 27~~, or Jan 3 (Adrin)
- Jan 31
    - Jan 3 22 UTC
- (Thomas) Time of Triaging meeting on Thursday to accomadiate more of us. Maybe next week at Thursday December 9 at 15:00 UTC
    - (Reshama) next Thursday is better (Dec 9)
### Action items

