# *September 27th 2021*

When you add an entry, please add you  name next to it.


### Fun topics

- (Christian) Let's grab a :beer::tropical_drink::tea::coffee: and toast to the 1.0 release.

- (Adrin): how do we our versioning from now?
    - Question: when do we do 2.0?
    - Suggestion: continue with 1.1, 1.2, ... and if we see that we are not into big breakage, rename 1.3 to 13

### Need decision

- (Christian) [#20953](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/20953) Add random forest row-subsampling without replacement
- (Christian) [#20760](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/20760) FEA SplineTransformer difference penalty
- (Guillaume) 79 vs. 88 characters
    - Announcement to do: 88 => Gael does that

### Need attention (reviews)

- (Guillaume) `sample_weight` in `Pipeline`:
    - `Pipeline` not accepted in meta-estimators: [#21134](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/21134)
    - `CalibrationClassifierCV` silently ignore `sample_weight`: [#21143](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/21143)
- (Olivier for Christian) Interaction constraints in GBRT (as a potential alternative to GAMs). [#21020](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/21020). This is a [weird Cython/OpenMP problem](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/21020#issuecomment-922337842) to investigate.
    > [name=Julien] I started a review and I will try to reproduce this problem.

- (Julien) Private Cython submodule for aggregations over pairwise distances [#20254](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/20254)
    - ðŸ“¢ Shameless advertisement:
        - Up to â¨‰20 speed-up on `kneighbors` and `radius_neighbors` (two APIs which are used by others internal algorithms and external users applications)
        - Similar performances compared to Intel's implementation (in oneAPI)
    - Currently adapting the last bits and adding more tests

- (Olivier for Thomas) Follow-up work on implementing `get_feature_names_out` (see [#18444](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/18444)) for various transformers. Some Open PRs are linked at the bottom of the discussion of `#18444`.
    - Discussion about how to [name those output features (e.g. for kernel centerer)](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/21079#discussion_r715472936)


- (Olivier) brain-storming (if time allows): what's next for feature names
    - Pandas-out https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/20258
    - Pipeline could alternatively `get_feature_names_out()` to annotate input of next step without wrapping into a dataframe, e.g. for making it easy to specify categorical features in HGBDT.

### General topics

- Communication team
    - Delegate
    - (Adrin):
        - The communication team may need quick feedback
        - The communication team may need decisions
        - Scheduling available time for these may be useful (office hours), for clarity of timeframes
            - This needs to be done with many one-to-one meetings (ie discord) and not big calls with many people in them
            - (Alex) Office hours focus on contributors (not users)
            - Meetings to touch base or make big decisions
            - Rotating time slots compatible with different time zones
                - Google doc (Reshama will begin Google doc)
            - TODO: create a scikit-learn discord or rename the scikit-learn scipy 2020 one 
- (Christian) How to better coordinate and set our priorities, in particular towards releases?
    - TODO: Gael:
        - Ask everyone to give a list of 5 points that important for the 2-year horizon of scikit-learn
        - Cluster this
- (Roman & Guillaume) Proposal to add scikit-learn to the SPEC process [#20968](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/discussions/20968)
    - Ask our community if someone wants to be a liaison officer => Gael does that
- (Guillaume) reported by Reshama -> missing some contributors in the changelog (automatic tool is generating this list?).
    - Bug created by the github "coautor" versus author
    - People not in the git log (eg communication team) need to be added

 
### Next meeting date and chair person
- October 25

### Action items
