# Scikit-learn Monthly Developer meeting
### June 27 2022 @ 13 UTC

When you add an entry, please add you name next to it.

### Topics

- [name=Olivier] WASM / Pyodide platform as a supported platform [#23727](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/23727)
    - Not all the test suite passes
    - Challenge: how to run all the tests in the browser (and takes more time)
    - => suggestion: nightly runs?
- [name=Olivier] Index types int32/int64 for Cython code that works with CSC/CSR sparse matrices [#23653](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/23653)
- [name=Thomas] Quick summary of discussions with NumPy and Jupyter Surveys
    - First figure out the goals (you can't ask too many questions, max 40 questions)
    - Translating helps advocating for the survey
    - Partnered with a university specialized in survey design
    - Useful to get money from foundation
    - Do a good report (visualy pleasing, summarizing a lot) to max your impact
    - NumPy PDF: https://numpy.org/surveys/NumPy_usersurvey_2020_report.pdf


### Need decision

### Need attention (reviews)

- [name=Thomas] [SLEP018](https://github.com/scikit-learn/enhancement_proposals/pull/68) `set_output` and pandas out
    - [#23734](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/23734) is the implementation for pipeline and the preprocessing module.
    - Goal: vote on SLEP in the next couple of weeks
- [name=Thomas] [#23595](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/23595) missing values support for trees
    - Needs review
- [name=Olivier] [#23604](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/23604) Cython sparse-dense computation for all supported distance metrics (to be used to optimized k-NN queries and such)
    - Needs review
- [name=Jeremie] [#23462](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/23462) Parameter validation with declarative constraints
    - May be a step towrards defining reasonable hyperparameter search space
    - Has been encouraging to see new contributors collaborate on these issues

### Action items

- [name=Guillaume] Preparing the 1.1.2 release in the upcoming weeks

### Next meeting date and chair person
- July 25
