# Scikit-learn Monthly Developer meeting
### 09/26/22 @ 20:30 UTC

When you add an entry, please add you name next to it.

### Topics

 - [name=Julien] Governance Update:
     - [SLEP019](https://github.com/scikit-learn/enhancement_proposals/pull/74#issuecomment-1245660853)
     - [Implementation PR](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/24444)
     - Minutes:
         - People present in the meeting agree it's better to pursue discussion on the SLEP PR itself.
         - Olivier: having people in Triage, CI/CD, documentation have more permissions would really be helpful to remove friction
 - [name=Jérémie] Core devs (team) <-> owners (role) ?
     - Give core devs the owners role
     - Yearly, audit the owners and give them the "member" role which has less permissions compared to the "owner" role

### Need decision

### Need attention (reviews)

 - [name=Julien Jerphanion] [Meekail's draft document on meetings](https://hackmd.io/xOy0fTnqSUuE2cQ5lqRTFg)
     - Meekail will send a poll to schedule bi-weekly meeting
 - [name=Julien Jerphanion] [ENH Monotonic Contraints for Tree-based models](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/13649)
     - [name=Julien] will ask @samronsin (the author) if it's fine pushing a few commits for finalisation
- [name=Thomas] [`set_output` PR](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/23734). Here is a [the example](https://output.circle-artifacts.com/output/job/f1b1e7f4-454d-4788-aed7-65f0d273a845/artifacts/0/doc/auto_examples/miscellaneous/plot_set_output.html) to introduce the API for users.
    - [name=Guillaume] will make a review shortly
- [name=Guillaume] PDP for categorical features [#18298](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/18298)
- [name=Olivier] FYI, some progress on drafting a extension system to allow for third party engine plugins in scikit-learn [#24497](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/24497)
    - still very much WIP
    - first plugin: https://github.com/soda-inria/sklearn-numba-dpex/pull/20
    - not all k-means hyper params / dtypes support: engine should raise `NotImplementedError` otherwise
    - we will organize dedicated discord sessions for people interested in this to share live feedback
- [name=Juan Martin, Reshama] Sep 28, 2022: Salta, Argentina SciPy LATAM sprint. Looking for folks to review PRs online.
    - Repository for the sprint: [`jmloyola/sklearn-sprint-argentina-2022`](https://github.com/jmloyola/sklearn-sprint-argentina-2022)
- [name=Christian] [#21020](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/21020) interaction constraints for HGBT. 2 approvals missing. It would be sooooooo nice to have it in 1.2.
- [name=Adam] [#24000](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/24000) From prev. meeting, questions about refactoring trees to enable 3rd-party extensions
    - Might be useful for scikit-survival's `SurvivalForest` and [quantile forest](https://pypi.org/project/quantile-forest/)'s `RandomForestQuantileRegressor` 3rd party projects (in addition to ObliqueTrees).
    - Original PR for Oblique Trees: https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/22754/
    - Quantile Forest: https://github.com/zillow/quantile-forest


### Action items

### Next meeting date and chair person
- ? Oct 31
