# Scikit-learn Monthly Developer meeting
### September 5 2022 @ 20:30 UTC

When you add an entry, please add you name next to it.

### Topics

 - [name=Julien] Following Chiara's discussions:

     - Restructuring scikit-learn organisation and teams
         - Context: contributors might not be valued appropriately (e.g. with tasks and responsabilities that are out of their interests)
         - Proposed solution:
             - by Reshama: Create several teams with different tasks and responsabilities following [PyMC's community and team architecture](https://github.com/pymc-devs/pymc/blob/main/GOVERNANCE.md#community-and-team-architecture)
             - (add any other proposals)
        - Making it more clear what is the overall community (the PyMC documents does this well)
            - Notion of reccurent contributor (on the PyMC governance)
            - Contributions aren't necessarily Pull Requests, reviews also are for instance. Documenting it would make it explicit.
    - TODO:
        - Add a notion of **recurrent contributor** with one or several aspects of the project, be they modules or topical (e.g. doc, CI).
        - Recurrent contributors' reviews are acknowledged as trustworthy.
        - Benefit: accepting people in the organization more easily / quicker

     - Make submodules' "codeownership" and maintenance public and clear
         - Context: contributors hardly know how and which maintainers to contact for their contributors
         - Proposed solution:
             - [GitHub's code owners feature](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/about-code-owners)
             - Reflect on office hours:
                 - are they useful at the moment for communication between contributors and maintainers?
                 - should we improve the communication around them (especially regarding their goals and their recurrence)?
                 - See existing ["available reviewers"](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/wiki/Available-reviewers) documentation.
             - (add any other proposals)
    - Comments in the meeting:
        - Danger of "code ownership" is to get out of date, and adding notification may not help
        - External contributors do not have access to the github recommended reviewer, nor the ability to Approve --> Maybe we should allow for easy membershop of the Scikit-learn org with no rights/responsibilities
        - Idea of creating teams of experts that are not core devs but that know well part of the code base, which could ping those teams
        - TODO: group of **experts** create a list of people (group) who can vote on PR (notion of **approval rights** on a given PR)
        - ADDITIONAL PROPOSAL: create new "triage" team that has push rights to be able to edit issues (administer github) and should not push code (which would be socially enforced)

 - [name=Meekail] Should there be NumPy-like triage meetings focused on fast-tracking otherwise difficult PRs and features?
     - Focus would be on PRs that are difficult to review and which benefit from synchronous discussion
     - Would be helpful for many of the ongoing API discussions and developments
     - Comments in the meeting:
         - Triage Meeting better be used for triage work. Community offices hours might be preferable for discussing PRs.
         - It is OK to be assertive to other core-dev for one's PRs to be reviewed.

 - [name=Olivier] Officially ask the PSF Code of Conduct Work Group (conduct-wg @ python.org) to act as our (fallback?) contact address to handle reports?
     - We would have to ask them if they agree and which policy we would be subjected to as maintainers of scikit-learn.
     - PSF Code of Conduct Working Group [Enforcement Procedures](https://www.python.org/psf/conduct/enforcement/)
     - Form a team dedicated to handling Code of Conduct reports with a possible fallback.
     - Olivier initiates a discussion with PSF core devs

### Need decision

 - [name=Julien] [KNeighborsClassifier: allow p value for Minkowski calculation to be less than 1.0 (and greater than 0)](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/22811), following up with Adrin's mention
     - [name=Julien] I would close it.
 - [name=Julien] [Oblique Tree](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/22754)
    - Also related but independent: Tree Splitter refactoring, see [this recent comment](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/24000#issuecomment-1218471690)
        - [name=Gael] I'm not enthousiastic at all about oblique trees
- [name=Christian] Multiclass Brier score, see summary https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/22046#issuecomment-1142431914
    - Two strings in the scorer string "binary_brier_score", "multiclass_brier_score"
- [name=Christian] Isotonic regression for reliability diagrams [PR#23824](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/23824): inclusion or not
    - Problem with how recent the paper is: borderline on inclusion criteria

### Need attention (reviews)
- [name=Chiara] https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/7910 a six years old first contributor PR approved by Albert Thomas and almost by Joel updated until 3 months ago
- [name=Meekail] [HDBSCAN](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/22616) has been trimmed (10k->~2.7k loc) and is ready for more serious review.
    - [name=Julien] +1. That's on my review list.
- [name=Thomas] pandas output PR: [#23734](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/23734)
- [name=Christian] HGBT interaction constraints [#21020](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/21020)
    - [name=Julien] +1. That's on my review list.


### Action items

 - Gael and Julien: rewrite the Governance document to define the notion of Roles (introducing "Recurrent Contributor") and Teams
 - Olivier: initiate a discussion with PSF core devs
 - All: be assertive to organise spontaneous meetings/calls for reviews

### Side-note

- [name=Julien] [GitHub Community discussion: Add reviewers/participants as co-authors of PR](https://github.com/orgs/community/discussions/4525)


### Next meeting date and chair person
### September 26 2022 @ 20:30 UTC
