# Scikit-learn Monthly Developer meeting

## November 27th 2023, 16:00

### Updates

* [name=Tim] https://iris-hep.org/ has summer interns/students that could be directed towards contributing to scikit-learn. Would need a mentor. Summer 2024. Should I invite Mike Sokoloff (University of Cincinnati) to next meeting for more details
    * People from the particle physics world
    * Length of the internship ~ 3 months
    * The bottleneck is mentoring
* [name=Loïc] 1password open-source free plan [approved](https://github.com/1Password/1password-teams-open-source/pull/839). Added people and shared bot accounts passwords.
    * Very good, everybody happy :smile_cat: 

### Topics

- [name=Guillaume] update regarding the CZI EOSS6 proposal
    - Question: should we make part of the proposal public on the organizational repo on github?
        - :+1: 
    - Numfocus do the financial support: they are handling the open collective (we bill numfocus through open collective)
    - Part of Lucy's salary (55%) will be taken from there (if the grant is accepted)
    - 2 sprints
    - internships
- [name=Guillaume] release schedule for 1.4
    - [name=Guillaume] currently making PR to handle end of deprecation cycle for this version
    - [name=Olivier] maybe we need a bit more time not to rush 1.4 before end of year holidays.
        - carefully review deprecated stuff that need removal for 1.4
        - maybe finalize dataframe/pandas/polars related PRs, e.g.:
            - polars output for `ColumnTransformer` [#26683](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/26683)
                - Revisit release branch date decision in one week as the danger is to get close to Christmas and thus have to move release to 2024 (some people are taking and of year off)
            - polars categorical column detection in HGBDT and/or `OrdinalEncoder` [#27835](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/27835)
            - this we could get a simpler highlevel message about polars dataframe integration in the release highlights for 1.4
- [name=Tim] Athan Reines contacted me to talk about a CZI grant Quantsight Labs/he is applying for work related to Array API. 
    - wants to talk about connection to scikit-learn, I've not followed up yet


### Need decision

- [name=Guillaume] API for fix validation set for early-stopping: [#27124](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/27124)
    - We need to plan a dedicated drafting meeting on this topic with Jeremie and Christian.
    - Question: why is this important compared to passing a function/object to split the data?
        - Probably because it is less explicit
        - It seems very complex to get this right for callbacks

### Need attention (reviews)

- [name=Guillaume] fix for bug in monotonic constraint in trees - blocker for 1.4: [#27639](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/27639)
    - The tricky question is this one: [comment](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/27639#discussion_r1383789206)
- [name=Guillaume] meta-estimator for tuning decision threshold: [#26120](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/26120) ![cat](https://hackmd.io/_uploads/SJem7QzHa.gif)

- [name=Julien] Borůvka's algorithms' introduction for HDBSCAN from Meekail [#27572](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/27572/)

### Discussion

* [name=Gael] If time: bring in front end people to scikit-learn
    * introduce a dedicated "Frontend" or "HTML/CSS" label in the issue tracker to give more visibility,
    * advertise that we are looking to (volunteer?) contributors on this.
    * create a few issues that show status quo and encourage improvements of specific things
        * "see how terrible it is now, can't you help?"
        * Adding parameter views on the HTML display
    * [name=Olivier] we need to give another look at options to interactive WASM interactive demos:
        * https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/24878
* [name=Julien] [#9626](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/9626) is the 5th of [the most :+1:-reacted issues](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Areactions-%2B1-desc). Solutions exist, but is it worth resolving now that HGBT support MAE?
    * Yes, if the implementation cost is not huge

### Action items

### Next meeting date and chair person

* Decembre 18th (calendar invite already sent)
* January meeting date: 29th (not yet planned in the shared google calendar)
