# Scikit-learn Monthly Developer meeting

## October 30, 2023

### Updates

- [name=Guillaume] Release 1.3.2

### Topics

- [name=Loïc] sharing passwords between the team e.g. for scikit-learn-bot account? Maybe start with:
   + a way to share passwords between the team. 1password has a free open-source plan that opencollective and Python Cryptographic Authority use, see https://github.com/1Password/1password-teams-open-source. Other recommendations?
   + a shared mailing list to have code confirmation, set up a new one rather than use scikit-learn-internal for this?

  [Github recommendations](https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/keeping-your-organization-secure/managing-two-factor-authentication-for-your-organization/managing-bots-and-service-accounts-with-two-factor-authentication) seem a bit too complicated, need to set-up 2FA, a command-line tool to generate one-time token, and password reset on each connection

  - for mybinder.org operations we used:
      - shared mailing list as the email address. Small team so used the "normal" mailing list for this
      - [gitcrypt](https://www.agwa.name/projects/git-crypt/)
          - pros:
              - store secrets "in plain sight" in team compass repo
              - trusted people can add more trusted people
              - free, not relying on a cloud hosted service with unknown security practices (e.g. LastPass)
          - cons:
              - very fiddly to setup, especially if you have team members who don't use git on the terminal every day
              - only one key for all users, rotating it would be tedious (e.g. if you have to remove a bad actor)
      - discussed switching to 1password, Tim doesn't know outcome, but it seemed everyone was in favour. it 'just' needed doing
          - tricky: where to store 2FA secret? 1password offers this as option but then password and OTP secret are stored in the same place. is it still 2FA??
  - Info: [SPEC 6](https://github.com/scientific-python/specs/pull/168) covers this topic.
  - Decision: try 1Password's plan. Loïc is volunteering to apply for the 1Password open-source free plan.
      - Alternatively also give a try to the solution presented in SPEC 6

### Need decision

 - [name=Julien] Do we want to introduce type annotations [as proposed recently by this PR](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/18689) and [as discussed here](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/16705)?
     - Discussions:
        - useful for dev UX, for other framework extending scikit-learn
        - yet would come with:
            - a lot of maintainance cost and duplication with the input parameters' validation
            - lack of expressiveness of our parameters and interoperability with the variety of arrays
        - what are the problems solved by type annotations?
 - [name=Julien] Do we want to have a "good first PR to review" label for new contributors and new reviewers?
     - Discussions:
         - we anyway need to have maintainers merge the PRs at the end
         - this can help with "Maintainer Track": we can have recurring contributors get involved in reviews, progressively getting more presence and eventually becoming core contributors if they want.
         - this is a solution, probably we should think about the problem that is communicating about contribution possibilities or expectations explicitly
         - we need to indicate that anyone one can become a Core Contributor if they want, and give examples about tasks or ways to progress in the project and expectations (e.g. you are not bound to participate to meetings to you are encouraged to)
 - [name=Guillaume, Jerome] Handling `pd.NA` in our estimators: reduce the scope to only `.set_output(transform="pandas")` or try to fix any occurences
     - https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/27671

### Need attention (reviews)

- [name=Guillaume] Need reviews for `TunedThresholdClassifier`:
    - https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/26120
- [name=Julien] [PEP 703 (Making the Global Interpreter Lock Optional in CPython) acceptance](https://discuss.python.org/t/pep-703-making-the-global-interpreter-lock-optional-in-cpython-acceptance/37075)
- [name=Julien] Need not be covered: [DOC Update Pairwise Distances Reductions' documentation](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/27525)
    - I regret not being able to be as active on scikit-learn as I used to. Hence I wonder about making this private submodule more approcheable/maintainable (if this is useful).

### Action items

- [name=Loïc] For the lock file bot, I need Thomas (I think he is the one that created scikit-learn-bot) to update BOT_GITHUB_TOKEN to have workflow scope. See [#27622](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/27622#issuecomment-1782973770) for more context
- Update the governance document to clarify how to become a maintainer

### Next meeting date and chair person

November 27th 2023, 16:00
December 18th 2023, 16:00 => need a calendar entry
