# Scikit-learn Monthly Developer meeting

### August 28 2023

### Topics

- [name=Tim] "soft deprecation" https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/27003
    - indicate that parts of scikit-learn will not receive new features, contributions or other work (except blatant bug fixes)
    - no warnings raised
    - soft deprecation via docs only
    - use it to steer users towards other tools that we do support and develop
    - reduce maintenance work
    - a soft deprecated API will not be removed or have testing reduced
    - What do people think?
        - Meekail: generally ok, some concrete ideas for where to use it
        - How should we (realistically) get started using it?
        - Maybe avoid the word "deprecation" as it sends the wrong message? Find a name that communicates that we don't want to add new features to something but don't plan on removing the code.
            - does someone have suggestions for a alternative name?
            - Frozen, fixed, **"maintenance mode"**, "limited support", "bug fixes only"
    - Worth it to introduce this?
    - What should we add to the list of soft deprecations?
        - [name=Meekail] Maybe some clustering solutions? I don't know if DBSCAN/OPTICS is worth it at this point, with HDBSCAN in place...
- [name=Meekail] Follow-up to internal survey pt.2
    - [Results here](https://hackmd.io/@micky774/B13zPimp2/edit)
    - We can keep a shortlist of "high priority" projects, seeded by the results of the ranked-choice poll, and each month we may add/remove projects as needed
    - The projects are currently a bit vague and not entirely actionable. Here is a proposal to fix this:
        - A single meta-issue which serves as the center of the project for reporting/discussion
        - Would also need to create a roadmap for each project, kept in the meta-issue
        - Each project would require one person to be "in charge" of bookkeeping, i.e. keeping the meta-issue up-to-date and helping create initial roadmap.
            - Issue should include: steward, list of volunteer reviewers, active/open issues, agreed-upon roadmaps
        - Projects that do not have roadmaps are hard to treat as actionable by those not directly involved.
        - Only need to do this for a few projects at a time, e.g. those in the top 10 **and** have a developer willing to champion it
        - During monthly meetings, we can give a short summary on progress/state of each meta-issue
        - Mediated through a specific label
            - meta, project-focus, "pet project", epic
        - Please volunteer for only a few projects you are willing to dedicate yourself to it
- [name=Meekail] Current state of [SIMD exploration](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/27145)
    - Less infrastructure required than I initially thought
    - Only additional dependency is `xsimd` which can be vendored for ~1MB
    - Runtime dispatch does not introduce significant cost, hence no slowdown for scalar path
    - Very thin C++ layer for defining loop bodies, everythin bound through Cython
    - AVX instructions supported commonly since 2011/2012, and offer ~3-7.5x (4-8x ideal) speedup on distance metrics (significant bottleneck for many estimators)
    - questions:
        - how does xsimd compare to Highway?
        - what do you think about the (possible) numpy switch to highway? Should we do our own thing or use their work?
        - what about pyodide support? - maybe highway supports it?
            - Indeed highway supports `WASM` and `WASM_EMU256` instruction sets
- [name=Christian]'s topics
    - last blog post is long ago
    - implementation progress of metadata routing (nice package for v1.4)
    - HGBT
        - more feature completeness
        - leading example on how to train and use them (=>Arturo)
    - [RFC remove some of our examples](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/27151) We have way too many examples
        - Need to find Arturo's list of candidate examples to merge / remove.

### Updates

- [name=Olivier] EuroScipy sprint triggered some activity on:
    - Array API compat:
        - https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/26024
    - Testing for scipy sparse array support:
        - https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/26418
        - a lot of PRs linked to the following meta-issue:
            - https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/27090
        - most of them are just about updating the tests but sometimes we
          actually have to fix code in either scikit-learn or even scipy.
- [name=Olivier] numpy 2.0 will have some impact on the build system (and some other breaking changes):
    - https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/27075
- [name=Thomas] I got GPU testing (CI) on my fork to work.
- [name=Thomas] I will have less bandwidth for the project. Focus is on HistGradientBoosting + DataFrames + Array API
- [name=Julien] I also have and will have less bandwidth for scikit-learn. I will try to prioritize work on native performance and SciPy sparse arrays support
- [name=Olivier] DataFrame API standard progress:
    - https://data-apis.org/dataframe-api/draft/API_specification/index.html
    - different from the interchange protocol (`__dataframe_consortium_standard__` vs `__dataframe__`)
    - https://pypi.org/project/dataframe-api-compat/
    - [name=Thomas] I have a version of `set_output(transform="polars")` that does not need `dataframe-api-compat`. `set_output` does not really require much of the DataFrame API.

### Need decision

- [name=Olivier] on behalf of [name=Christian]:`colsample_bynode` vs `max_features` for feature subsampling in HGBDT and other tree-based estimators
    - https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/27139
    - Also should we support `max_features=1` as an absolute value integer?

### Need attention (reviews)

### Action items

### Next meeting date and chair person
