# Scikit-learn Monthly Developer meeting
### April 24 @ 15 UTC

### Topics

* [name=betatim] Handling of `random_state` when cloning
    * context is https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/26148
    * Let's talk about the current state of affairs
    * The following three things need to be clear before we can start thinking about how to address the issue:
        * how should it work (from a UX, math, stats point of view)?
        * what do the docs say about how it works?
        * what does the code actually do?
    * Once we know the answer to those three we can think about which of them need changing, and how to go about that.
    * Action: talk at next drafting meeting about this topic
        * can we move the drafting meeting to May 4th?
    * possible actions:
        * Action: given the current sitatuion the most pragmatic thing might be to change the documentation to reflect the state of the code.
        * Action: create an issue to discuss where to go to and how to get there given backwards compatibility, migration paths, etc.
            * maybe consider the switch to the new Numpy generator tools at the same time?

- [name=Julien] Meekail and I thought of having an anonymous vote for the priorities of the project so that maintainers can give their opinions of what they think is important for the project. What do you think of this proposal?
    - Actionable steps to be done by @jjerphan and @micky774:
        - [ ] have people list items / subprojects for scikit-learn freely
        - [ ] turn this list into a form to have people vote openly on the internal ML (anonymously is not required but can be welcomed)
        - [ ] have core-contributors "attach" themselves to most items voted as most impotant
        - [ ] publish the results as a non-binding plan internally or even externally
        - [ ] let people are up to for the next months and better synchronise

- [name=François] Cannot join sorry - SAVE THE DATE - You are very welcome to a scikit-learn sprint in Paris (18th-24th of June) organized by the consortium with the help of Inria. I will share tomorrow a form in the internal mailing list.
    - Tim is excited! So is Julien!
- [name=betatim] Should we/the project form an opinion on accepting code contributions that were created with the help of chatGPT/copilot/etc?
    - who owns the copyright to the work? Can the contributor make the contribution and it then be under BSD3?
    - are there other aspects worth thinking about?
    - does anyone know what other projects are doing?
    - Adrin has sent a message to Numfocus (and the internal mailing list)
    - Note: there was a effort to make a case against GitHub but that doesn't seem to be going anywhere
        - without a court case we probably won't get a good answer from a lawyer
    - Copilot is a plugin for your editor
    - Copilot X is an integration in GitHub that creates a summary for a PR message
    - The risk of "copy&pasting" code already exists for human contributors (e.g. copying from Stackoverflow)

### Updates
- [name=Adrin] sample props update
    - there's one [small PR](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/26206), and then we can review the [big PR](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/24027). Guillaume and Olivier have shown interest in reviewing it.
    - we have also talked about and decided to merge `sample-props` branch into `main` ASAP, and continue development directly on main. This is low risk since now the feature is disabled by default and only available if users explicitly enable it.
    - [name=Guillaume] This is on my reviewing list of the week (still have a PR to finish up before).
        - [name=Adrin] you said that last week :D (I said that last Thursday and my week in Tuesday-aligned ;))
### Need decision

### Need attention (reviews)
- [name=Thomas] Support categories with cardinality higher than max_bins in HistGradientBoosting [#26268](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/26268)
    - Enables automatic pandas categorical support fairly easily after merging
    - Maybe add an example that shows how to perform custom collapsing of the categories and disable the behaviour in HistGradientBoosting.
        - not a showstopper for the above PR
- [name=Thomas] Missing value support for trees [#23595](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/23595)
    - [name=Julien] I am busy from now (moving to another flat), but I will do another final review when I get some time.
- [name=Meekail] Refactor of HDBSCAN tree-based functions [#26101](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/26101)
    - [name=Julien] Ditto.

### Action items

### Next meeting date and chair person
