# Scikit-learn Monthly Developer

## July 29, 2024
## Time: 12pm CEST, 6am ET, 8pm AEST

### Updates
- [name=Loïc] support for building with setuptools has been removed [#29400](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/29400)
- [name=Loïc] `spin` minimal support has been added [#29012](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/29012). `spin install -v`, `spin clean`, `spin docs`, `spin test`. Give it a go and give feed-back! Eventually my plan is for `spin` to supersede `make dev` and `make clean`.
    - Gael: concerned with the fact that `spin` has very little users and worried about balkanization.
    - Tim: important to remove redundant tools (e.g. `make`).
    - Adrin: make requires custom python scriptions to support Windows users. We need to improve the contrib UX for building the doc (either with a dedicated spin command or some pip `doc-requirements.txt` file, or other tools like [pixi](https://pixi.sh/latest/)).
    - Question by Olivier: does spin replaces the `docs/Makefile` / `docs/make.bat`:
        - answer is no, it still relies on the old infrastructure
        - this means that we still to manually install docs dependencies and the problem of installing docs dependencies still has to be fixed. Adrin's issue about how to create a dev environment: https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/29497
    - Tim: can we add `--dry-run` to `spin`?
    - Why not `scons`? Or any of the other many similar tools out there?
        - Gael: looking things more in details, meson is what replaced scons
    - Stefanie: spin and other additional tools add an abstraction layer that hides away the details of what is done in building and makes it harder to google; it's a threshold for people without a formal tech education or many years of experience
    - Comment: the problem of making it easier to install doc dependencies should be solved, discussed here https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/29497
- [name=Guillaume] Going to make a blog post to announce the CZI grant award and a follow-up email to the mailing list



### Topics

### Need attention/decision

- [name=Olivier] accepting sparse arrays in array API helper `get_namespace` when array API dispatch is enabled:
    - explicitly on demand: https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/29476
    - always: https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/29466
    - side question: how shall we test for this?
        - via pytest configuration only on one of the CIs.
        - that might require us to udpate some existing array API test that might assume that array API support is disabled by default but this is fixable.
        - It would be desirable to run tests with and without array API support and compare the two.
            - This could be done in a nightly CI run
        - Need a test/plan for testing that if you use a numpy array, python list, sparse as input and disable array API support nothing breaks
    - Discussion on better testing for array API
        - Test if data is moved across devices: Implement a wrapper on top of array API which fails if the data is moved to a new device? This might be difficult to do as a test (because there might be several libraries involved); another approach might be to try to have a linting rule
        - we don't really test device-dependent code branches, could we create a pseudo-device to test this, is there a way to ask array-api-strict to add multi-device

### Discussion

- [name=Loïc] add Github Discussions to home page footer Community section: [#29530](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/29530)
    - The question is how much we want to draw attention to the github discussions: too much volume might drown the human resources behind the discussions
    - Resolution: discord has not been overwhelmed by traffic, so it seems that we can go ahead

### Action items

### Next meeting dates and chair person

- August = break => End of september
w- Find the date/time for the September session (September the 30th?) on the mailing list maybe with a survey if needed.


