# Scikit-learn Monthly Developer

## May 27th 5pm CEST, 11am ET

### Updates

- [name=Olivier] scikit-learn 1.5.0 is released
    - Some regressions to fix for 1.5.1:
        - https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3ARegression+milestone%3A1.5.1 (probably some are missing)
        - Wait a little to see if there are more regressions

### Topics

- [name=Olivier] Need to see how I can get back youtube credentials to post the release highlights video on the official scikit-learn channel (did not review the final version yet myself)
- [name=Olivier] removing unmaintained tutorials
    - https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/29104
        - Some of them do not run, hence we should remove them
    - Shall we try to replace them with something else?
        - Make sure that tutorial examples are visible as such
        - Maybe re-add a new tutorial on text classification that covers some of the things presented in the unmaintained "working with text data"
        - Link to the MOOC?
        - Slowly fade-away / refactor or improve existing non-tutorial examples
        - Need a beginning tutorial that introduces common scikit-learn words/basic concepts ("getting started") (need an issue to not forget about this point, pointing to the useful old files)
        - Some monthly traffic numbers:
            - 169k on /stable/
            - 86.4k on /stable/.../train_test_split.html (API)
            - ...
            - 11k /stable/tutorial/machine_learning_map/index.html
            - 10k on /stable/model_persistence.html (for comparison)
            - 6.3k on /stable/tutorial/index.html
            - 6k on /stable/tutorial/basic/tutorial.html
            - 4k on /stable/tutorial/text_analytics/working_with_text_data.html
        - Consider making redirect pages
            - check plausible for how many people (still) visit these pages to decide if we need a redirect/message
- [name=Christian] [GOV emeritus](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/28906): not sure how to conclude, but want to conclude.
    - Importance of the choice of words: find words that value people previously involved
    - Importance of the faces / making things a bit more personnal
        - +1
    - Gael reached out to some old timers, they were all positive about the move
    - One of feelings is that we have a mechanism, we just need to use it more often
    - We can add that we do this once a year
- [name=Olivier] Disable PyPy CI entirely?
    - PyPy lock files can no longer be updated
    - Fixing this would require a rewrite of some Cython code to avoid using `array.array`:
        - https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/28869#issuecomment-2068832492
    - Note: conda-forge pypy has been broken for a while. Last available version on conda-forge is 1.0.2 python 3.7.
    - Resolution: drop support and see if people volunteer for support. There is a FAQ about PyPy to update too: https://scikit-learn.org/dev/faq.html#do-you-support-pypy
- [name=Adrin] meeting time
    - We have a few people who are active on the repo but can't / haven't attended the meetings. We should have another round of discussion on the mailing list, to make sure we find new time slots for the ones who want to attend but can't.
        - We would like to cover East Asia and West coast
        - Suggestion: Alternating early afternoon / late evening (Europe time)
        - Thomas will propose a few times on the mailing list

### Need attention/decision
- [name=Adrin] Pipeline's `transform_input` [#28901](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/28901)
- [name=Adrin] `HalvingSearchCV`'s fate: [#29089](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/29089)
    - It's not broken
    - UX problem with predictable behavior of the parameters
- [name=Christian] How about picking some issues/PRs marked "needs decision" and decide?
  - Maybe better in triage meeting.
  - Label "second decision" as a second opinion is often very valuable and settles things.
      - Suggestion:
          - Write a blog post that explains the challenge (which is: summarizing the PR, helping people make an analyzing and a decision on it)
          - Point to this in PRs
- [name=Guillaume] Shall we close the vote regarding the SPEC 0 endorsment (it was open on the mailing list long time ago). Julien sent it January 29 2024. 8 votes, may not enough and need to be resent?
    - Title of the email: "[VOTE] Scientific Python: scikit-learn's endorsement of SPEC 0 (Minimum Supported Versions)"

### Discussion

 - [name=Julien] Hi, have people seen [Kolmogorov–Arnold Networks](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2404.19756)? :)
 - [name=Guillaume] Created some project boards to follow-up on some priorities: https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/projects?query=is%3Aopen
 - [name=Tim] scikit-learn (contributor) merch?

### Action items

### Next meeting dates and chair person

Archived meeting notes from previous meetings:

- https://github.com/scikit-learn/administrative/tree/master/meeting_notes
