## April 29th 4pm CEST, 11am ET

### Updates

- [name=Guillaume] User survey update
    - First sent to internal mailing to gather feedback, in the next three weeks
    - Target 1st June for public desimination
    - Once this is sent, make sure to communicate well with everyone
- [name=Tim] Scientific Python Developer Summit, early June in Seattle, invite only
    - Tim is going
    - anyone else going?
    - [name=Julien] I was invited, but I am leaving my seat to someone else.
    - Topics:
        - Web-analytics server shared across projects. But the server is too slow to download the data or filter the web views on a specific time range
            - what are other projects experience?
            - can we increase resources for the server?
            - stefan van der waalt setup the server?

### Topics

- [name=Tim] What about using GitHub as a way to report and handle vulnerability reporting?
    - Advantage would be to keep everything "in one platform"
        - reports show up as hidden "Issue"
        - can make a hidden PR to fix the issue
        - once everything is ready can make it public
            - or keep private? unsure
    - huntr (current platform) is a bit tricky to use/share access to a report
    - Some links to GitHub docs:
        - https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/security-advisories/guidance-on-reporting-and-writing-information-about-vulnerabilities/managing-privately-reported-security-vulnerabilities
        - https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/security-advisories/working-with-repository-security-advisories/configuring-private-vulnerability-reporting-for-an-organization
    - Question: Worth the transition effort?
        - Most of the effort is chasing down all the places where the information is (picked up and spread across websites, including the the huntr website)
        - huntr gives out a bounty for correct reports
    - Resolution: find out if it is possible to change things at huntr to have the information pushed up on github
        - Note: synchronize with tidelift
    - a few people are somewhat enthusiastic about this move.

- [name=Christian] (made it to this meeting)
    - Proposed change of governance in https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/28906 much the same as scipy. I'd like to collect feedback before calling for a vote.
    - TODO:
        - Rework the page https://scikit-learn.org/stable/about.html#people
            - change the title "author" to "core developer" on the page 
            - rephrase the page to value well all types of contributions
            - one more subsection level to group all people involved in the same section
            - Gael should do this. If he doesn't, he needs to be reminded
        - Send an email to all inactive members on this list, asking for an email if they want to stay
        - Note: we still did not implement the recurrent contributor list, while there was a consensus on it

- [name=Jérémie]
    1.5 schedule. 1.5.0rc1 this week. 1.5.0 final mid May.
    Please take a look at the milestone for last PRs you want to see in https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/milestone/56
    
    Ideas for the release highlights ? (no major feature yet)
    
    - Timeline aligned with numpy 2.0 release?
        - Answer: The last release supports numpy 2.0
        - No specific effort to be done here
    -  TuneThresholdClassifier would love some work
    -  Logistic multiclass as listed below

### Need attention

- [name=Olivier] `OrdinalEncoder` with `"auto"` mode to encode missing and/or unknown with positive integers dynamically adjusted with n_categories (non-missing/observed) so that it's possible to use in conjunction with tools such as `torch.nn.Embedding` that do not except non-contiguous or negative integer indices:
    - https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/28892

- [name=Olivier] Ongoing discussion on cleaning up license info in source files:
    - https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/20813
    - Current conclusion: remove the specific list of names, and replace by "scikit-learn authors", but keep the licence in the files

- [name=Christian]
    - `LogisticRegression`
        - [PR#28703](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/28703) Deprecation of OVR in LogisticRegression. Should happen in 1.5.
        - [PR#28840](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/28840) Adds multinomial support to newton-cholesky solver. With this PR, liblinear would be the only solver not supporting multinomial!
        - Overall plan enables modernizing log-reg
        - Conclusion: Chronology merge deprecation soon, and then support multinomial
    - [#15132](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/15132) feature importance in HGBT (maybe opening an old pandora's discussion box)
        - Resolution: Not a long-term comitment to not having this feature, but rather a desire to expose it better

- [name=Jeremie] Threading with a shared threadpool for OpenBLAS and OpenMP
    - https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/28883
