# Scikit-learn Monthly Developer

## Feb 26th 5pm CEST, 11am ET

### Updates

- Release 1.4.1

### Topics

- Making Meson our main build backend? https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/28506
    - Concerns with respect to the default development mode are being addressed upstream
    - Spend some effort to make sure that the nightly builds are all successful
        - Before the merge: trigger a full build
        - After the merge: monitor
        - Clean up of the full build after the next release
        - Downstream (conda-forge, debian...) will have to adapt
        - **Conclusion**: do it soon, because we are between release

- Uploading musllinux wheels to PyPI? [issue comment](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/27004#issuecomment-1956366043), [working PR](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/28490). numpy, scipy, matplotlib, pandas already have musllinux wheels.
    - musllinux uses a smaller libc => smaller overall footprint
    - diminishing returns, given the footprint of blas, ... conda enables sharing library
    - **Conclusion**: no core-dev resources for musllinux for now. revisit this later. No consensus amongst devs regarding the space saving/performance improvements.
- How to handle contributions from automated tools?
    - Olivier suggests adding a statement to the contribution guide
    - discord discussion https://discord.com/channels/731163543038197871/731509564477800519/1210512932677615677
    - **Conclusion**:
        - A statement on the contribution guide
            - Only address fully-automated tool
            - Leave a door open: talk to us first (open an issue for discussion)
            - generally: please no fully automated/mass issues or PRs
        - Guidelines for all teams to close the issues fast and block the account if PRs/issues persist
- [name=Guillaume] Update regarding Algolia search bar
    - Still not fully working / ready for integration
    - Accepted into the open-source program of `docsearch`
    - Possibility to invite other member into the Algolia dashboard
    - Crawler is scrapping based on the header to define different levels
        - We need to have way to define the level 0 of the search
            - May need to tweek the html to help the crawler which uses the html headers: for instance "API reference" is not exposed
        - We should probably await for the `pydata-sphinx-theme` to be merged (or build on the top)
        - Preview available at: https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/28478

- [name=Olivier] New theme progress report:
    - work led by @Charlie-XIAO
    - many PR alread merged, more are WIP/under review https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pulls?q=is%3Apr+%22%5BPST%5D%22+
    - preview https://scikit-learn.org/_pst_preview/

- [name=Olivier] Calibration doc for probablistic classifiers:
    - follow-up on https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/28171
    - documented some experiment in this draft notebook to support the planning of the next steps and agree on message:
        - https://gist.github.com/ogrisel/8502eb455cd38d41e92fee31863ffea7
    - will open an RFC issue to plan the next steps:
        - continue refining the user guide
        - expand / refactor existing examples related to:
            - calibration
            - validation curves
            - hparam tuning
        - recommend always hparam tuning classifier with a predict_proba on `neg_log_loss` (or Brier score).
            - should change the default metric used for the .score method of probabilistic classifiers
            - should we do that change only in hparam tuning models
                - We could have a "scoring" argument that is "auto", and a very simple heuristic (eg: if hasattr `predict_proba`)
            - `neg_log_loss` (because higher is better) is a really bad name because of the double negation (negative negative loglikelihood)
            - maybe just plan remove the `score` method in the long term

- [name=Adrin] Triaging round-robin with official turns for maintainers working full-time to answer to recently updated PRs (and issues) and ping relevant people?
    - every week one (or two?) person would be in charge of doing this


- [name=Tim] CI with GPUs, what can we do?

### Need decision
- Alternative metadata routing API proposal: https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/28467
- nan in SplineTransformer:https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/28043
    - [name=Olivier] we need to answer this [request](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/26793#issuecomment-1920032167)
