# Scikit-learn Monthly Developer

## October 28, 2024
## Time: 2pm CEST, 9am ET

### Updates
- [name=Adrin] `FrozenEstimator` is merged, now we can work on removing `prefit` and documenting `FrozenEstimator` as the solution: https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/29893
    - [name=Guillaume] Release sensitive -> remove option `prefit` in `FixedThresholdClassifier` before releasing 1.6
        - Update the example

- CZI Grant
    - we need to find mentees, and figure where they wanna be, and who mentors them
- NASA Grant
    - 3 year grant, probabl.ai will manage the sklearn side of it, Quansight is the main contact of the grant

### Topics
- [name=Adrin] Release: 25 open PRs in the [milestone](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+milestone%3A1.6)
    - [name=Guillaume] Starting the release process this week (mainly branching) in order to release a RC (Release Candidate) version next week.

- [name=Olivier] how to revive the ASV benchmarks?
    - Need a machine with a fixed hardware stability guarantees (either cloud bare metal or on-prem)
    - If we host on-prems, we won't be able to share admin access to all maintainers that want to but maybe this is not a problem for benchmarks.
    - Cloud hosting can be quite expensive for bare metal hosts.
        - https://asv.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
        - https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/tree/main/asv_benchmarks
        - https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn-benchmarks
    - Buying a physical machine looks like the most appropriate solution right now. Probabl will look at purchasing the hardware.
    - side topic: GPU CI on this machine as well
        - hosting it on the same machine is an option, but new level of complexity to run a self-hosted runner + security aspects as well


- [name=Adrin] Two developer API PRs:
    - Remove `_xfail_checks`: https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/30149
    - Move `_estimator_type` to tags: https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/30122
    - [name=Guillaume] Give a try to use the new tag infrastructure in `imbalanced-learn`.

- [name=Arturo] We want scikit-learn core devs to be as involved as possible in the scikit-learn certification. If you want to help us beta test it, please fill in [this google form](https://forms.gle/vdF7x3TyDfFqNbZ26)

- [name=Guillaume] SPEC 1 endorsement: Lazy loading
    - we merged a [PR](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/29793) that makes it possible to only import `sklearn` (without importing sub packages) and then use `sklearn.ensemble.RandomForestClassifier` without further import statements. `sklearn.ensemble` is imported on the fly transparently.

- [name=Guillaume] SPEC 6: Key of the castle - shall have a look if it would improve our current practice
    - https://scientific-python.org/specs/spec-0006/

- [name=Adrin] write to user's branch / Issue comment permission for the contributor experience team
    - Decision: grant write permissions to contributor experience team members who want it.
    - Not all team members are active, better not grant write permissions to people who don't want/need them for security reasons.
- [name=Tim] Add PR reviewers to co-author when merging a PR and/or the change log?
    - a way to encourage people to contribute reviews by giving them credit that way?
    - maybe not super interesting for core developers but maybe motivates new comers?
    - think about it, lets not decide anything now
    - adding to the changelog makes the change log a bit more noisy
    - tricky to remember to do add people to merge commits before merging
    - maybe a dashboard of frequent contribs as alternative?
    - People's GitHub profile will show that they are doing the reviewing work
    - [name=Stefanie]: the main reason people don't review more is that it's very difficult (you need to have a lot of internal knowledge too apart from programming skills); how to facilite this is a solution
        - solution or problem?
            - generally, what you can gain from reviewing is that you learn something; it helps if a PR that have been reviewed by less experienced people, are reviewed by a maintainer rather sooner than later, to get feedback fast

### Need attention/decision

- [name=Olivier] Inclusion decision: new method to adjust the learning rate of our existing MiniBatchKMeans implementation:
  https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/30051

### Action items

### Next meeting dates and chair person
