# Scikit-learn Monthly Developer


## March 31, 2025
## Time: 4pm CEST

### Updates

### Topics

- [name=Loïc] Feeling about adding a page mentioning paid support similar to [Dask one](https://docs.dask.org/en/stable/support.html#paid-support) with Probabl and Quansight. Be more willing to point to out when questions are borderline support. For example a recent [issue](https://github.com/joblib/joblib/issues/1588#issuecomment-2727802396) about joblib CVE being false positive or not.
    - We should add a criterion ahead of time on how companies get on this page
        - We feel that this criterion should be related to having an active developer (including doing reviews)
        - Do an FAQ entry (accessible from the list or under the list)

- [name=Loïc] Bumping dependencies minimum version rule, based on previous discussions, there seems to be some consensus around the following:
    - Python: drop support if more than 4 years old
    - compiled dependencies: oldest minor release (X.Y.0) with wheels for our minimum Python version
    - pure-Python dependencies: at the time of release take the most recent minor release (X.Y.0) that is more than 2 years old
    - we may decide to be less conservative than this rule in some edge cases that include security or critical bugfix in one of our dependencies

    See [this comment](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/30888#issuecomment-2766112386) for more details on the guideline and discussions in [#30888](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/30888) and [#30895](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/30895).

    Next steps:
      - write the guideline in the maintainer doc
      - SLEP or not SLEP? This is documenting what we have been doing historically, not a real change. Not writing a SLEP seems acceptable.

    Suggestion to attend remotely the Scipy Dev Summit and communicate that we are implementing a slight variants of SPEC0. Virgil will likely be the person representing scikit-learn.

- [name=Tim] EuroSciPy CfP
    - any scikit-learn talks? In particular related to array API?
    - Tim and Sebastian will submit proposal for array API tutorial
    - Tim and Sebastian will submti a maintaienrs track on array API/dispatching/dataframe interchange/etc
    - olivier/guillaume: tutorial on imbalanced classification

- [name=Olivier] PyData Paris CfP
    - probabilistic prediction with a continuous target variable

- [name=Olivier] update 2 reviewers policy for merging PRs
    - proposals:
        - an honest self-review (after 24h/48h) of maintainers own PR can count as a +1 if there is already a +1 by another reviewer.
        -  [name=Gael] Suggestion: define what needs two reviews (eg no changelog => 1 review sufficient; new API => 2 reviews needed). There is a grey zone, see suggestion above , and build trust of reviewer
        - [name=Gael]: suggestion: PR triaging, close more PR
            - Revive triaging meeting to triage PR and close some to help focus attention
        - [name=Olivier]: person on triage duty could compile a list of PRs waiting for second review and avertise it on discord/bi-weekly meeting.

    The decision making page (https://scikit-learn.org/stable/governance.html#decision-making-process) needs an update to make explicit that "small changes" are needed only if you introduce something new or change a behavior
    - Should we special case the situation when PR author and reviewer are both core devs

    The lack of update to date roadmap was also pointed out as important

### Need attention/decision

https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/milestone/63

### Action items


### Next meeting dates and chair person

Archived meeting notes:

- https://github.com/scikit-learn/administrative/tree/master/monthly_meetings
