# Scikit-learn Monthly Developer

## May 26, 2025
## Time: 4pm CEST

### Updates

### Topics

- [name=Virgil] Report from the [Scientific Python Developer Summit](https://scientific-python.org/summits/developer/2025/) (11-14 May 2025)
  - The Scientific Python community is working on updating the [SPEC 0](https://scientific-python.org/specs/spec-0000/) documentation ([scientific-python/specs#389](https://github.com/scientific-python/specs/pull/389)). Once a draft is ready, (likely in a few months,) they plan to request feedback and approval from all core projects that currently endorse SPEC 0, including scikit-learn.
  - There is ongoing work to replace [scikit-learn's KDTree](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.neighbors.KDTree.html) with the upstream [KDTree from SciPy](https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/generated/scipy.spatial.KDTree.html): [scikit-learn#31347](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/31347), [scikit-learn#31358](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/31358). This is part of [scientific-python/specs#31](https://github.com/scientific-python/summit-2025/issues/31). Would like to bring this to the attention of core maintainers in advance.


- [name=Loïc] feeling check on mentioning Probabl professional support directly in Github comments? One example [here](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/31390#issuecomment-2898378489). Context: some files may be problematic in commercial context (but the person already has an existing process to handle them)
    - [name=Tim]: seems OK, avoid being too spammy, try to have an "interesting" comment, not just an advert for your services

    -
- [name=Olivier] about requiring and checking that the test suite (and library) is thre
    - Context: before enabling the free-threading-safe flag on our Cython extensions we need to test that they are actually thread-safe
    - To do so we can use `pytest-run-parallel` plugin to run each test several times concurrently with several threads.
    - But this in turn requires that all our tests are either thread-safe themselves or explicitly annotated as `@pytest.mark.thread_unsafe`.
    - I started to update our test suite to do so here: https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/30041 (I think I fixed 60% of the problems): most problems are related to the mutation of objects (dicts, datasets, estimators) passed with `@pytest.mark.parametrize` and are quite easy to fix.
    - Assuming we complete this work and merge this PR, we have some follow-up questions:
        - shall we update one or more CI entries to run `pytest-run-parallel`?
            - on PRs
                - that would imply that we expect all PRs to have thread-safe tests before merging
                - might be a bit complex to explain to first time contributors but maybe problems will be rare enough so that it's fine.
                - big downside: I expect test duration to be around 100% slower to run on that build.
            - as a dedicated nightly/weekly scheduled test run that opens issues?
                - put less pressure on external contributors
                - but means that our `main` branch can have pending thread-safety problems untill the next weekly run and follow-up PR fix.
            - [name=Loïc] What about starting with updating existing free-threaded CI to use pytest-run-parallel

* [name=Tim] (but really Adrin?) changes to the CoC, from PSF to Numfocus
    * Adrin raised this on the mailing list
    * Topics to discuss:
        * what is the current system?
            * we currently link to/support/use the Python Software Foundation CoC
            * the PSF had a COC committee that projects could use as a "fall back" (useful if people want to report a COC violation that involves project maintainers)
            * scikit-learn doesn't have an official way for external people to report a COC violation
        * New proposal
            * do we want to adopt the Numfocus Code of Conduct
            * comes with a backup/fall back COC Committee
            * has an explicit way of contacting the committee
        * how well does it work/what could be better?
        * what do we get from the switch?
        * addition of moderation guideline for the Numfocus CoC
    * Conclusion:
        * We feel that the new setup is interesting
        * An email will go out to check that people not in the meeting agree with the switch. If no disagrement, we switch

* [name=Sylvain] (No particular hurry here, just opportunities for those interested) available to discuss [#31247](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/31247) and/or related ideas. I started to list all places where eigen/svd solvers are used in sklearn as suggested by Olivier last time, here is the result (list below). I started to gather more details (which solver is default, which is available, which is used depending on config...) but not worth sharing at this stage I guess. This could serve as the basis in the future to detect where some solvers are missing and could possibly bring benefits.
    *  Alternative: first start discussing with scipy to push the solvers work there, and then leverage once all solvers are in scipy.
        - FastICA
        - KernelPCA
        - PCA
        - LinearDiscriminantAnalysis
        - NeighborhoodComponentsAnalysis
        - RidgeCV
        - RidgeClassifierCV
        - LocallyLinearEmbedding/locally_linear_embedding
        - SpectralEmbedding
    * Comments:
         * Benchmarking is crucial and hard, but if done well, this is very valuable work
         * "auto" modes (made of heuristics, that are hard to develop) are incredibly valuable
             * similar to recent work by @ogrisel for PCA :heart: https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/blob/98ed9dc73/sklearn/decomposition/_pca.py#L526
             * this is the PR with benchmark results https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/27491
                 * https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/27491#issuecomment-1749167238
         * We need to be careful about complexity of API


### Need attention/decision

- [name=Christian] (maybe absent) What to do with the PassiveAggressive Classifier? [#29097](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/29097)
    - No strong opinion against
- [name=Christian] (maybe absent) governance PR for less reviews [#31430](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/31430) (sorry, phone UI paste not working)
    - People should review this, it won't take much time, it's short
        - The importance of the review is to create adhesion
