# Scikit-learn Monthly Developer

## February 24, 2025
## Time: 4pm CEST

### Updates

### Topics
- [name=@reshamas] Blog Analytics: can anyone help setting up the Plausible JavaScript code? https://github.com/scikit-learn/blog/issues/214
    - [name=Loic] will look into
    - Stefan VDW>I need to register it, and then you just need the same Javascript snippet as in the sklearn docs.
- [name=Adrin] GH actions: GH seems to be nice enough to offer us more quota on our runners / action times, and now we have aarm and macos aarm on GH actions anyway. Do we want to move away from Azure CI?
    - currently we use all of our macOS ARM resources already
    - benefits of moving:
        - improved UI of github actions vs azure pipelines that requires more clicks to move around and find error messages
        - github actions market place with many things that just work like setting up miniconda
    - cons:
        - [name=Olivier] is there a test results search engine on github UI?
            - apparently something similar exist as a dedicated github action
        - [name=Olivier] we will have to be extra careful about security (isolation of cache used by user's PR vs release workflows)
            - investigate "environments" (I think) that can provide isolation between different jobs wrt secrets and such
    - move to github actions and then change the lock file management (e.g. using pixi) if want, but those are independent matters
    - proposal: move progressively, not everything at once.
- [name=Loïc] Write our own explicit rule for bumping minimum dependencies (as alternative to SPEC0) [#30888](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/30888)
    - bump min Python version in scikit-learn December release to be a bit more than 3 years old
    - min numpy, scipy is oldest release with wheels for min Python. Means min numpy is roughly 3 year old.
    - pure Python dependencies: min release is about 2 year old
- [name=Olivier] Shall we bump-up to min Python 3.10 in `main` right away as a consequence?
    - consensus: do the bump we should have done in December 2024 and forgot to.

### Need attention/decision
- [name=Christian] RFC make response / inverse link / activation function official [#29169](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/29169)
  At least `raw_predict`.

### Action items


### Next meeting dates and chair person


Archived meeting notes:

- https://github.com/scikit-learn/administrative/tree/master/monthly_meetings
